---
title: About
author: david
categories: ['About']
tags: ['FAQ']
description: Thought rocess and FAQ
toc: True
date: 2023-09-08 04:00:00 +0000
hide: true
---

## Thought Process

To create this website, I used a precoded theme that I have for websites and simply built upon it. It wasn't something very complicated, all I needed to do was to add my information and build upon the pre-existing styling and code. In this specific website, I added headings to the images in order to better describe their meaning and relation to the posts. I also added some home page artifacts, such as the title and the home page image.

## FAQ

### Why choose those images?

I chose those images because I thought they represent my growth as a photographer throughout high school. And yes, I did take all of those photos. I've been doing photography for about 10 and a half years now and I have gotten very good at composing and editing my photos.

### Why create a website?

Website development is something that I am passionate about and, in a way, this also represents some skills I have developed throughout high school. I also decided to do a website because it allowed more freedom as to what I can do and also allows the reader to be more immersed in the reflection rather than a Google Doc or a Google Slides presentation.

### Why not have any pictures of yourself on the website?

First of all, since this website is public, I don't want to have my face out there. Second of all, I am a photographer, so I have very little photos of myself going places or hanging out with friends. I am usually the one taking the photos of others, not the other way around.

### Why is the logo a triangle?

I decided to chose that as my logo a while ago. It started with the logo being `dvd`, however it eventually changed to being just the triangle, representing the letter `v`.