---
title: Self Evaluation Reflection
author: david
categories: ['Reflection']
tags: ['Reflection', 'Growth']
description: Reflection of entirety of high school.
toc: True
date: 2023-09-08 01:00:00 +0000
image: /assets/img/post_images/senior.jpg
---

<style>
  #essay {
    font-size: 18px;
    text-indent: 50px;
  }
  #sub{
    font-size: 12px;
    color: rgb(94, 94, 94);
    text-align: center;
    margin-top: -10px;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-style: italic;
  }
</style>

<p id="sub">Image I took in senior year.</p>

## Reflection

<p id="essay">
  Now in my last year of high school, I realize just how much I have grown, both as a student and as an individual. This is just the beginning of my life and career, either as an engineer or scientist. Through the experiences that I have had in classes, with friends, and in extracurriculars, I have been able to develop skills that have allowed me to become an organized individual that is able to not only get through but also thrive in a stressful environment while still keeping relations with colleagues. Reflecting on my experiences has allowed me to realize how much I, as well as my environment around me, has changed in the past four years. It has also allowed me to appreciate the people I have surrounded myself with, my friends, teachers, and colleagues at work. It has become clear to me how much I have learned from experiences with them or directly from them, with their patience of my, at times, bland nature. Overall, my experiences in high school have and will continue to help me with future endeavors in whatever college, career, and experiences I decide to pursue.
</p>
<p id="essay">
  Just around four years ago, I had my very first high school class. This was not however at Del Norte at all, instead being on Zoom. This was because of the pandemic at the time, which prevented all of us from going to school physically. This was not a stress-free experience however, as the workload did of course become increasingly more difficult as we transitioned into high school curriculum and expectations. Grades now also have an impact on determining our futures, counting towards our GPA. This made everything even more stressful, as I had to make sure I always kept an A in my classes, so as not to affect my GPA. I also knew little to no one in my classes since I had taken classes over the summer to get ahead on the material that I thought would be too easy for me. I had to learn how to make new connections with others in my class, which was even more difficult over Zoom than in person, in order to have people to ask when I needed help with the classes I was in. This required me to develop my communication skills, which as an introvert was extremely difficult because I didn’t particularly enjoy talking to others. Connecting with upperclassmen allowed me to gain more knowledge about how highschool worked, how classes were structured, and what to watch out for in classes and teachers. This knowledge helped me pick classes for the following year that would fit my interests and help supplement the major that I believed I would be going into.
</p>
<p id="essay">
  Going into Sophomore year, it was not only the first year I had chosen APs, but also the first year that I was on campus at Del Norte. It felt like I had already been to campus, recognizing some faces from Zoom and noticing some things I had been told about by those in grades above me. I still felt as though I was new however, not knowing the entire layout of the school and also still being on the younger side of the school's population. Having to adjust back to in person classes, with teachers in the class, and students around me. This elevated my anxiety to a certain extent because I had just come from total isolation to now being in a class with 30 others, and being an introvert didn’t help either. I was eventually able to adjust however, and begin feeling comfortable on campus. This year I had also chosen 3 APs, AP Bio, AP Chem, and AP Euro. I was one of the only students in my grade that were taking two sciences at once, AP Bio and AP Chem. The workload of these classes was a tremendous increase from the previous year, with AP Euro notes taking hours to do and also studying for AP Bio and AP Chem. Being able to communicate with others in my classes again played an important role in classes, as having help from others in my classes was key to being able to understand the concepts taught. In AP Bio, I again had to connect with my upperclassmen, as that class consisted of primarily Juniors and I was the only sophomore in my entire class. That year I also got my very first B, which was in AP Chem. I knew, signing up for this class, that the content would be extremely difficult, but it was still devastating ending the first trimester with a B, knowing that this would affect my GPA and there was nothing I could do to change it. This was the end of my belief that grades were the only things that mattered and the beginning of the belief that trying my best was what mattered when performing on anything in life. This helped decrease a lot of the stress I was experiencing in school and it also helped me be more accepting of results that I thought were poor in the future.
</p>
<p id="essay">
  Junior year was a year that I felt was less difficult than Sophomore year. I took 4 APs this year, AP Physics, AP Calc AB, AP CSP, and APEL. These classes were of course a lot harder than the previous years classes but I thought that they were a lot easier because I had learned how to manage my time better and also split the workload I experienced to reduce stress. By now I also had developed my communication skills by a very large amount, with me being able to work with others much better than before. This helped me learn the material a lot easier, with help from classmates and teachers that I was no longer afraid to ask for help. I was also part of the leadership teams of three clubs at the time, all of which were extremely time consuming. I was able to manage this workload however, by working diligently to complete goals that I set myself, goals that I would be satisfied with. Although getting a B in AP Physics, I was still able to continue trying my best with the work that I was doing, in my mind making me successful at the tasks I was trying to accomplish. I also became a lot more outgoing this year, having the ability to speak to others without being scared, bringing a larger amount of friends than I previously had. Connections through clubs also developed, creating a large network for myself to use for help on various topics I needed help with. Overall, this year was a compilation and refining of ideas and beliefs I developed through the first two years of high school.
</p>
<p id="essay">
  Throughout high school, my largest development was probably as a communicator, starting from a pure introvert to becoming confident in my ideas and skills when talking to others. I’ve learned that communication with those you are working with is key to having success in what you are doing, whether that be verbal or written. Communicating with your educators is also really important when trying to understand concepts that are complicated and assignments that require clarification. One example where communication was key was in AP Computer Science Principles, where programming a project in a team made it mandatory to have extremely good communication with the team on what everyone is doing. Not communicating effectively could lead to merge conflicts with code as two people work on the same section of code. Although sometimes working on one thing together is beneficial, in computer science it is not because of the potential errors that could occur because of all the changes made in one place. Being able to communicate with everyone in the team and organize them into their respective roles has allowed for a much easier workflow. This organization through communication has translated into my jobs, one example being my position as laboratory assistant at Popmintchev LABS at the center for advanced nano science in UCSD’s physics department. Working with colleagues from Austria, Poland, Israel, Spain, Australia, and England on components needed to complete experiments in the lab requires a tremendous amount of collaboration as parts for experiments need to be produced and theories need to be created. 
</p>
<p id="essay">
  I am no longer my fully introverted self. I have developed, not fully, into someone capable of expressing ideas. I will of course never be fully developed in this topic as in the future I will continue to learn better communication skills and develop those that I have gathered throughout high school.   Throughout college and my future career, I need to continue with an open mind. I need to be accepting of many others ideas in order to accept, consider, or modify them when continuing to communicate in a more professional setting. As a thinker, as I said, I hope to open my mind up more, as it will help me accept more ideas in the future, allowing for potentially better solutions to problems that might have seemed unsolvable. As a writer I can also grow, as learning more vocabulary can enhance my writing and make it more interesting to read. For scientific papers, I can make my language more concise which will lead to a better understanding by others who try to replicate my experiments or attempt to expand on topics I have researched. As I continue into college with these goals, I believe that I can set myself up for success in the future, with many exciting and potentially revolutionary discoveries.
</p>
