---
title: Freshman Year
author: david
categories: ['Freshman']
tags: ['English', 'Commentary']
description: Freshman piece and reflection.
toc: True
date: 2023-09-08 04:00:00 +0000
image: /assets/img/post_images/freshman.jpg
---

<style>
  #essay {
    font-size: 18px;
    text-indent: 50px;
  }
  #sub{
    font-size: 12px;
    color: rgb(94, 94, 94);
    text-align: center;
    margin-top: -10px;
    font-weight: bold;
    font-style: italic;
  }
</style>

<p id="sub">Image I took in freshman year.</p>

## Reflection Piece

> “In Educated by Tara Westover, Westover summarizes her father’s beliefs, which led to a majority of circumstances in her life. Throughout Tara’s life, her father has believed in conspiracies about the government and society. Because of his beliefs, her father has never let his children go to school or any other place he thinks is connected to the government and the conspiracies he believes in. As Westover summarizes her life, she states, “I am only seven, but I understand that it is this fact, more than any other, that makes my family different: we don’t go to school. Dad worries that the Government will force us to go but it can’t, because it doesn’t know about us. Four of my parents’ seven children don’t have birth certificates. We have no medical records because we were born at home and have never seen a doctor or nurse”(Westover xii). This passage is comparing Tara Westover’s childhood, as well as describing it. When Westover is describing her family, she mentions how she and her siblings have never gone to school, they have no medical records, and most of the children in the family have no birth certificates. She also compares these characteristics to other families, in order to show that her family is different from other families. Westover describes her family and compares it to others in order to introduce the readers to her life and how it has been shaped by her father’s beliefs. It gives the readers background on what type of person her father is, so that the readers can understand the way her family acts and why it acts that way.”

## Reflection

<p id="essay"> 
My first work is a writing piece from my freshman Honors English class with Mrs. Philyaw. In this assignment we were supposed to practice writing a paragraph with commentary on a quote chosen from any book that we had read. This was one of the first times I had ever written commentary and as a result I didn't know what I was doing. This was also during the Covid pandemic, when school was online and it was hard to learn new ideas and concentrate on work without having physical copies of the work in front of us. Classes were also shorter, allowing for less time to learn the material, leading to even more confusion with certain topics. With commentary, I didn’t know what the “how” and “why” of commentary was and how we were supposed to use that format and concept of commentating on evidence from books that had little to no rhetorical strategies. I tried researching online how to do such writing with no success and had to end up asking my peers on how to do the commentary. Almost none of them knew how to do this so I just tried my best by describing what the quote is showing. This is of course not at all the right way of doing commentary, as I didn’t center the commentary on a central theme that was shown in the passage or didn’t describe how the word choice of the author effectively showed that theme or idea. I only described what happened in the story and how some of the details that were mentioned in the quote led to showing that the family acts a certain way, without going into detail what that certain way is and how it’s portrayed throughout the story. I eventually learned in Honors Humanities the correct way to do commentary was to expand more on how the quote connects to the audience, by either resonating with the audience in some way or by showing the audience a specific idea with strategies used in the writing. Throughout APEL, with rhetorical analysis, synthesis, and argumentative pieces, I learned how to adjust the commentary to different types of writing. Meeting with the teacher and asking questions on how I could further improve my commentary mainly helped, however communicating with fellow students and doing peer reviews also helped. Overall, learning how to do commentary helped me greatly with my high school writing career, as almost all types of writing require commentary. Having the skill of being able to write commentary also helped me become a better explainer to others in other classes, allowing me to logically explain ideas by explaining how certain things work and why they would work that way. Although I didn’t do very well on this specific piece, it was the beginning of my journey on learning proper commentary.
</p>
